# TODO: Translation updated at 2026-06-29 18:49

translate spanish strings:

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:41
    old "The Great Temple"
    new "The Great Temple"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:41
    old "I am Maanai, High Priestess of the Great Temple of Zeta, this is my wisdom.\n\nAs servants of the Temple, the Priestesses that I lead must serve the Gods, the Queen and the City, in that order, but all too often, I see young girls seeking to join the Temple's servants more for the free meals and the security that the position offers. Do they believe in the Queen? Do they want to serve the Gods? Do they make the choice out of a sense of civic duty to the City? Or has this really become a refuge for destitute women? Any one of the three reasons would suffice, but often it is not the case. It pains me, when it happens, to have to relegate to the slave pens those young girls who ask to join purely out of desperation, to escape slavery, destitution, or an unhappy union... but it must be done.\n\nThe missions of preaching the faith of the Gods, of bringing hope and spiritual comfort to the ill, the weak and the downcast is a sacred duty, that should not be handed to those that don't believe. The mission of bolstering the population of Zeta should be given to those who are strong in body, mind and spirit, and who believe in something greater than themselves, whether it's the Gods, their representative the Queen, or the duty to serve the sacred City of Zeta. How else but by following an ideal greater than oneself, can a woman accept to bring to term multiple pregnancies only to renounce the fruits of their womb time and time again, when they are weaned off the mother's milk? The heartache would be too much to bear if not supported by faith in something.\n\nFor this reason, I hereby decree that the full rank of Priestess of the Temple will only be attained after an extended period of thirty years of service as a Vessel for the Children of Zeta. Those women who do not complete the full term of thirty years, will have failed the City, The Gods and the Temple, and will therefore be banished into slavery.\n\nThe idea of serving for such a long time to produce citizens, soldiers, men and women of Zeta, should scare away those girls who think to use the Temple as an easy way out of the dangers and hardships of life in this desert land. During their years of service as Vessels, the chosen ones will live in the Temple and be well cared for. After a pregnancy should come full term, suitable matches will be arranged as soon as it is viable for them to produce another Child of Zeta. Once their thirty years of service in this fashion have come to pass, they will ascend to the rank of full Priestess, return to the world, or stay on as servants to the Temple, depending on their choice. The Children of Zeta they will bear will be given to deserving and suitable families to raise and become productive members of Zetan society, or educated to serve as guards, soldiers, bureaucrats to the Temple, to the Palace and to the City of Zeta in general.\n\nDuring their thirty years of service, these women will be known as Vessels or by the generic title of Priestess, and the use of their given names will be forbidden to them and to those that address them. Nameless and bound in servitude to the Temple, the public shall address them with the honorific of Revered Mothers only, for they will be like mothers to all of Zeta. Their birth names will be recorded in the Temple ledgers and will be restored to them upon the successful completion of their service as Vessels.\n\nThis I decree for the good of the Temple and of all of Zeta, with the blessing and the authority of the Queen.\n\nHeed my words,\n\nI am Maanai, High Priestess."
    new "I am Maanai, High Priestess of the Great Temple of Zeta, this is my wisdom.\n\nAs servants of the Temple, the Priestesses that I lead must serve the Gods, the Queen and the City, in that order, but all too often, I see young girls seeking to join the Temple's servants more for the free meals and the security that the position offers. Do they believe in the Queen? Do they want to serve the Gods? Do they make the choice out of a sense of civic duty to the City? Or has this really become a refuge for destitute women? Any one of the three reasons would suffice, but often it is not the case. It pains me, when it happens, to have to relegate to the slave pens those young girls who ask to join purely out of desperation, to escape slavery, destitution, or an unhappy union... but it must be done.\n\nThe missions of preaching the faith of the Gods, of bringing hope and spiritual comfort to the ill, the weak and the downcast is a sacred duty, that should not be handed to those that don't believe. The mission of bolstering the population of Zeta should be given to those who are strong in body, mind and spirit, and who believe in something greater than themselves, whether it's the Gods, their representative the Queen, or the duty to serve the sacred City of Zeta. How else but by following an ideal greater than oneself, can a woman accept to bring to term multiple pregnancies only to renounce the fruits of their womb time and time again, when they are weaned off the mother's milk? The heartache would be too much to bear if not supported by faith in something.\n\nFor this reason, I hereby decree that the full rank of Priestess of the Temple will only be attained after an extended period of thirty years of service as a Vessel for the Children of Zeta. Those women who do not complete the full term of thirty years, will have failed the City, The Gods and the Temple, and will therefore be banished into slavery.\n\nThe idea of serving for such a long time to produce citizens, soldiers, men and women of Zeta, should scare away those girls who think to use the Temple as an easy way out of the dangers and hardships of life in this desert land. During their years of service as Vessels, the chosen ones will live in the Temple and be well cared for. After a pregnancy should come full term, suitable matches will be arranged as soon as it is viable for them to produce another Child of Zeta. Once their thirty years of service in this fashion have come to pass, they will ascend to the rank of full Priestess, return to the world, or stay on as servants to the Temple, depending on their choice. The Children of Zeta they will bear will be given to deserving and suitable families to raise and become productive members of Zetan society, or educated to serve as guards, soldiers, bureaucrats to the Temple, to the Palace and to the City of Zeta in general.\n\nDuring their thirty years of service, these women will be known as Vessels or by the generic title of Priestess, and the use of their given names will be forbidden to them and to those that address them. Nameless and bound in servitude to the Temple, the public shall address them with the honorific of Revered Mothers only, for they will be like mothers to all of Zeta. Their birth names will be recorded in the Temple ledgers and will be restored to them upon the successful completion of their service as Vessels.\n\nThis I decree for the good of the Temple and of all of Zeta, with the blessing and the authority of the Queen.\n\nHeed my words,\n\nI am Maanai, High Priestess."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:76
    old "Might Makes Right"
    new "Might Makes Right"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:76
    old "{i}The parchment is dry but still soft to the touch, with care, it can be unfolded. It's easily a few centuries old, but the writing is still clear.{/i}\n\nI am Aker, the third of my name. Hear my wisdom and heed my words.\n\nSince the End of Days, men and women have fought tooth and nail over the scraps of what is left of society. The adage goes that Might makes Right. It's not entirely true, nor is it that simple once you move in polite company, amongst your peers or even your betters; but at its core, this is what our society today is built upon.\n\nStrength of body and character have become the deciding factor to determine status and, quite often, survival. You take what you want, within reason and your own judgement, and you keep what you can.\n\nLet me, however, give you further advice on how to conduct your life profitably, with honour and strength. Beware of the weak who band together, for they may still defeat you. Be kind to those beneath you, for the debts of gratitude and sincere affection are bonds more powerful than steel. Be true to your word whenever you can; your reputation might be the only thing protecting you from a knife in the back. Do not shy away from opportunity; boldness without brashness is the mark of a leader of men. Be generous with what you have; a display of status can be a statement as strong as flexing your physical prowess. However, do not flaunt your wealth, such as it is. You don't want to place a target on your House, and there is a reason peacocks only survive in depictions on ancient tombs.\n\nThis is my wisdom, Aker, third of my name. Desert Stalker.\n\nD 27, Y 103 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "{i}The parchment is dry but still soft to the touch, with care, it can be unfolded. It's easily a few centuries old, but the writing is still clear.{/i}\n\nI am Aker, the third of my name. Hear my wisdom and heed my words.\n\nSince the End of Days, men and women have fought tooth and nail over the scraps of what is left of society. The adage goes that Might makes Right. It's not entirely true, nor is it that simple once you move in polite company, amongst your peers or even your betters; but at its core, this is what our society today is built upon.\n\nStrength of body and character have become the deciding factor to determine status and, quite often, survival. You take what you want, within reason and your own judgement, and you keep what you can.\n\nLet me, however, give you further advice on how to conduct your life profitably, with honour and strength. Beware of the weak who band together, for they may still defeat you. Be kind to those beneath you, for the debts of gratitude and sincere affection are bonds more powerful than steel. Be true to your word whenever you can; your reputation might be the only thing protecting you from a knife in the back. Do not shy away from opportunity; boldness without brashness is the mark of a leader of men. Be generous with what you have; a display of status can be a statement as strong as flexing your physical prowess. However, do not flaunt your wealth, such as it is. You don't want to place a target on your House, and there is a reason peacocks only survive in depictions on ancient tombs.\n\nThis is my wisdom, Aker, third of my name. Desert Stalker.\n\nD 27, Y 103 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:106
    old "The Long Walk"
    new "The Long Walk"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:106
    old "Being a Desert Stalker is a calling and a curse. Very few of us are successful enough to be able to retire and live a long life off the profits of our labour.  More often than not, our repeated incursions in the Zones put us at risk of contamination and of catching something that will kill us before our time, whether it's a knife cut, an illness or a mummy bite. So when our bones start to become heavy and we see the world move faster than us, do we stay on our path and go on with our lives until we can no more, or do we take the Long Walk?\n\nSome of us prefer the latter. They walk into the desert, armed with their trusted weapon, leaving everything else behind. They face the enemies they've made in their Stalker days with their heads held high. Stories tell of Stalkers being ambushed by old enemies, some who have been found lying under a palm tree, killed by exhaustion and dehydration; others still who found the room of wishes on their last journey to a Zone. When my time comes, I do not know if I will face the Long Walk or not.\n\nDo I stay with my loved ones for as long as I can and allow them to see me decay into infirmity, or do I abandon them to their fate and leave them with the memory of a strong leader of the house?\n\n- Personal records, D 184, Y 416 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "Being a Desert Stalker is a calling and a curse. Very few of us are successful enough to be able to retire and live a long life off the profits of our labour.  More often than not, our repeated incursions in the Zones put us at risk of contamination and of catching something that will kill us before our time, whether it's a knife cut, an illness or a mummy bite. So when our bones start to become heavy and we see the world move faster than us, do we stay on our path and go on with our lives until we can no more, or do we take the Long Walk?\n\nSome of us prefer the latter. They walk into the desert, armed with their trusted weapon, leaving everything else behind. They face the enemies they've made in their Stalker days with their heads held high. Stories tell of Stalkers being ambushed by old enemies, some who have been found lying under a palm tree, killed by exhaustion and dehydration; others still who found the room of wishes on their last journey to a Zone. When my time comes, I do not know if I will face the Long Walk or not.\n\nDo I stay with my loved ones for as long as I can and allow them to see me decay into infirmity, or do I abandon them to their fate and leave them with the memory of a strong leader of the house?\n\n- Personal records, D 184, Y 416 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:123
    old "Laws of Hospitality"
    new "Laws of Hospitality"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:123
    old "I am Hekal, Elder of Zeta. Hear my wisdom and heed my words.\n\nLet it be known, I speak with the blessing of Queen Merneith, as I tell you this. A man might live in a tent, a house or a palace, or find himself on the open sands and put up a fire. Such a man is the master of this abode, be it his residence or a temporary shelter. His is the right to defend his house, his campsite and his belongings, if he can, by the strength of his steel.\n\nRather than seeking battle, times may come for friends, relatives or even strangers to ask for hospitality, and it is good custom to accord it, when possible, if those who request it are trustworthy. We are but few, and the grains of sand are infinite. Whenever possible, we should seek to band together and lift one another up. It is also possible to temporarily share a roof without formally extending hospitality, be it to conduct a business transaction or to find a shelter for the night.\n\nBreaking bread together, sharing a companion or personal items of other nature signals the acceptance of the request for hospitality just as well as a spoken declaration to that effect.\n\nThe host should be generous with his possessions to make the stay comfortable and assist those guests who might find themselves in a state of need. When determining the generosity of their hospitality, a host would do well to consider the status of the guests, for it is also not proper to insult a Honoured Guests by serving them scraps from the table, and the higher the status of the guest, the more careful such considerations must be. Conversely, the guest should honour that generosity and not ask for more than is given. It is to be understood that the hosts are freely sharing what they can. A guest should not offend the master of the house, his subjects or family, nor should they offend other guests they might find under the same roof. Offending another guest is offending the master of the house.\n\nDuring such a time as one is a Honoured Guest, stealing from, or bringing violence upon the host, in words or actions, breaks the pact of hospitality. During such a time as one is a host, it is improper to steal or otherwise abuse the property and the person of the Honored Guests. This too will break the pact of hospitality. Queen Merneith shall not pass judgement upon those who take actions commensurate to repairing the insult, whether it be brought by the host or the guest. Breaking the rules of hospitality, be it in a home in Zeta or on a campsite far in the desert sands, is an insult to the Quee. Do not insult the Queen.\n\nDuring times of great calamity such as sandstorms or Cursed storms or similar, declared enemies might find themselves forced to share a shelter. In such occurrences, a truce should be in effect, lasting a full day past the ending of said necessity for shelter.\n\nThis is my wisdom and that of Queen Merneith. Hekal, Elder of Zeta. D 31, Y 244 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "I am Hekal, Elder of Zeta. Hear my wisdom and heed my words.\n\nLet it be known, I speak with the blessing of Queen Merneith, as I tell you this. A man might live in a tent, a house or a palace, or find himself on the open sands and put up a fire. Such a man is the master of this abode, be it his residence or a temporary shelter. His is the right to defend his house, his campsite and his belongings, if he can, by the strength of his steel.\n\nRather than seeking battle, times may come for friends, relatives or even strangers to ask for hospitality, and it is good custom to accord it, when possible, if those who request it are trustworthy. We are but few, and the grains of sand are infinite. Whenever possible, we should seek to band together and lift one another up. It is also possible to temporarily share a roof without formally extending hospitality, be it to conduct a business transaction or to find a shelter for the night.\n\nBreaking bread together, sharing a companion or personal items of other nature signals the acceptance of the request for hospitality just as well as a spoken declaration to that effect.\n\nThe host should be generous with his possessions to make the stay comfortable and assist those guests who might find themselves in a state of need. When determining the generosity of their hospitality, a host would do well to consider the status of the guests, for it is also not proper to insult a Honoured Guests by serving them scraps from the table, and the higher the status of the guest, the more careful such considerations must be. Conversely, the guest should honour that generosity and not ask for more than is given. It is to be understood that the hosts are freely sharing what they can. A guest should not offend the master of the house, his subjects or family, nor should they offend other guests they might find under the same roof. Offending another guest is offending the master of the house.\n\nDuring such a time as one is a Honoured Guest, stealing from, or bringing violence upon the host, in words or actions, breaks the pact of hospitality. During such a time as one is a host, it is improper to steal or otherwise abuse the property and the person of the Honored Guests. This too will break the pact of hospitality. Queen Merneith shall not pass judgement upon those who take actions commensurate to repairing the insult, whether it be brought by the host or the guest. Breaking the rules of hospitality, be it in a home in Zeta or on a campsite far in the desert sands, is an insult to the Quee. Do not insult the Queen.\n\nDuring times of great calamity such as sandstorms or Cursed storms or similar, declared enemies might find themselves forced to share a shelter. In such occurrences, a truce should be in effect, lasting a full day past the ending of said necessity for shelter.\n\nThis is my wisdom and that of Queen Merneith. Hekal, Elder of Zeta. D 31, Y 244 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:164
    old "My rose of the desert. She has been my faithful partner for more than two decades now. Fierce, loving, wise beyond her years and intelligent, I could not ask for a better companion to lead this House with. She knows me better than myself, knows how to calm the storm in my mind, and the temper in my heart.\n\nHer body is still that of the young woman I took for a wife, and she responds to my touch as the first time I laid my fingers on her. Never jealous, but fiercely protective of her dignity and her standing, she truly is my counterpart in more ways than I can count.\n\nOur love and companionship are the columns that support the strength of our House. She understands our [persistent.da]s in ways that I cannot, and knows how to keep order in our affairs when I am not there. Woe to the man or woman who tries to hurt her. Not the biggest storm nor the greatest distance would shield them from my wrath."
    new "My rose of the desert. She has been my faithful partner for more than two decades now. Fierce, loving, wise beyond her years and intelligent, I could not ask for a better companion to lead this House with. She knows me better than myself, knows how to calm the storm in my mind, and the temper in my heart.\n\nHer body is still that of the young woman I took for a wife, and she responds to my touch as the first time I laid my fingers on her. Never jealous, but fiercely protective of her dignity and her standing, she truly is my counterpart in more ways than I can count.\n\nOur love and companionship are the columns that support the strength of our House. She understands our [persistent.da]s in ways that I cannot, and knows how to keep order in our affairs when I am not there. Woe to the man or woman who tries to hurt her. Not the biggest storm nor the greatest distance would shield them from my wrath."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:178
    old "My pupil, my trainee, and quite possibly, my successor, when I shall be too old to travel the path of the desert. She has been trained by myself and several other masters in Zeta to become a Desert Stalker in her own right, and the time for that to happen is fast approaching.\n\nI know there are unspoken truths and feelings that we have both pushed to the side, to concentrate on her teachings. I hope that this will not come to be something I will regret, or that might put her in danger. I hope that sacrificing our physical intimacy will result in better chances for her to stay focused on her impending tasks. People become Stalkers sometimes by sheer luck, but in my experience it pays to be prepared to the best of one's ability. I find it works out best if the person undergoing the training is of strong mind and master of their own will. For that reason alone, I have put a wall between myself and [S], so that she may be independent from my wants and so that any affection she might develop will not become a fatal weakness. I hope I made the right choice in doing so.\n\nIn many ways she is ready, in some, more nuanced, she is still as innocent and naive as her younger sister. Beyond that, she is truly a member of my House in every way, loyal, supportive, ready to fight to the death for each and every one of us.\n\nI have caught her bickering with her younger sister more than once... A day may soon come where I must get to the root of that resentment that seems to be piling up between them."
    new "My pupil, my trainee, and quite possibly, my successor, when I shall be too old to travel the path of the desert. She has been trained by myself and several other masters in Zeta to become a Desert Stalker in her own right, and the time for that to happen is fast approaching.\n\nI know there are unspoken truths and feelings that we have both pushed to the side, to concentrate on her teachings. I hope that this will not come to be something I will regret, or that might put her in danger. I hope that sacrificing our physical intimacy will result in better chances for her to stay focused on her impending tasks. People become Stalkers sometimes by sheer luck, but in my experience it pays to be prepared to the best of one's ability. I find it works out best if the person undergoing the training is of strong mind and master of their own will. For that reason alone, I have put a wall between myself and [S], so that she may be independent from my wants and so that any affection she might develop will not become a fatal weakness. I hope I made the right choice in doing so.\n\nIn many ways she is ready, in some, more nuanced, she is still as innocent and naive as her younger sister. Beyond that, she is truly a member of my House in every way, loyal, supportive, ready to fight to the death for each and every one of us.\n\nI have caught her bickering with her younger sister more than once... A day may soon come where I must get to the root of that resentment that seems to be piling up between them."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:197
    old "My beloved girl... She is the youngest member of the House, having only recently come of age. Vain and a bit scatterbrained, she likes her little dresses, her jewels and to have fun. Under her childish veneer, I sense a depth that yearns to come out, and a well of insecurity about her place in the world.\n\nShe serves the House and myself well, and is completely loyal to the people she loves, her family. She is learning what it means to take responsibility for the tasks of running a household and supporting her family.\n\nAn odd mix of raw sexual energy and timid disposition, she looks up to her sister, even if she will never admit it to her. Should I be looking for a suitable partner for her, or indulge her desire to stay with us?"
    new "My beloved girl... She is the youngest member of the House, having only recently come of age. Vain and a bit scatterbrained, she likes her little dresses, her jewels and to have fun. Under her childish veneer, I sense a depth that yearns to come out, and a well of insecurity about her place in the world.\n\nShe serves the House and myself well, and is completely loyal to the people she loves, her family. She is learning what it means to take responsibility for the tasks of running a household and supporting her family.\n\nAn odd mix of raw sexual energy and timid disposition, she looks up to her sister, even if she will never admit it to her. Should I be looking for a suitable partner for her, or indulge her desire to stay with us?"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:210
    old "Nadia has changed a lot since the shy girl I remember from when she used to come over to play with [A]. Seeing her all grown up reminds me a lot of her mother, back when we were younger. She has the same energy, wild streak and adventurous spirit.\n\nGrowing up in a remote village, under the roof of such a bore as Omar, she must have felt limited and stifled. I bet she's making the most of her newfound liberty here in Zeta. Omar will have a hard time trying to control her now. I guess her knowing she is not his daughter doesn't help either.\n\nI wonder if Rabiah sees herself in Nadia like I do..."
    new "Nadia has changed a lot since the shy girl I remember from when she used to come over to play with [A]. Seeing her all grown up reminds me a lot of her mother, back when we were younger. She has the same energy, wild streak and adventurous spirit.\n\nGrowing up in a remote village, under the roof of such a bore as Omar, she must have felt limited and stifled. I bet she's making the most of her newfound liberty here in Zeta. Omar will have a hard time trying to control her now. I guess her knowing she is not his daughter doesn't help either.\n\nI wonder if Rabiah sees herself in Nadia like I do..."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:222
    old "She is a slave who appears to be quite content with her status. Her heritage seems to be tied to one of the northernmost regions of Old Europe, As generations went by, she seems to retain the persistently pale skin and blonde hair of her ancestors, and even remembers some of the language they spoke. It is remarkable, what people who find themselves in slavery are able to pass on despite their hardships. Born into slavery, she has learned to be an accomplished servant and house maid; to the point that her docile nature and her skills have seen her elevated to serving at the Queen's palace. She is in fact a gift from Queen Merneith, for services rendered. I have observed her carefully, as has my wife. She gladly pledged her life and her service to my House, and by all accounts seems to be committed to proving herself. She is an adult woman, closer to my wife in age, than to my [persistent.da]s, and seems to be well versed in many ways. Her exotic looks are striking."
    new "She is a slave who appears to be quite content with her status. Her heritage seems to be tied to one of the northernmost regions of Old Europe, As generations went by, she seems to retain the persistently pale skin and blonde hair of her ancestors, and even remembers some of the language they spoke. It is remarkable, what people who find themselves in slavery are able to pass on despite their hardships. Born into slavery, she has learned to be an accomplished servant and house maid; to the point that her docile nature and her skills have seen her elevated to serving at the Queen's palace. She is in fact a gift from Queen Merneith, for services rendered. I have observed her carefully, as has my wife. She gladly pledged her life and her service to my House, and by all accounts seems to be committed to proving herself. She is an adult woman, closer to my wife in age, than to my [persistent.da]s, and seems to be well versed in many ways. Her exotic looks are striking."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:233
    old "I found her in chains, in the depths of the main Decayed settlement in Old Cairo. She was handed to me almost gift wrapped. A broken gift that barely spoke or seemed to understand her surroundings.\n\nI think she was abused and used for so long that a part of her took refuge in the mind of a small child-like creature, responding to basic needs by learned impulse, and running on fear rather than sustenance.\n\nAs I write this, the only thing she seems to understand is violence inflicted upon her, and she responds by trading fear with lust, clearly used to making herself available as a way to survive the day.\n\nWhat is true is that she is a remarkable beauty, with features that are uncommon and a skin that seems to bruise with exposition to the sun more than it did when she lived in the fumes of Old Cairo.\n\nHer fiery red curls are such a rarity that she would stand out even if nothing else of her was visible. Women who try to dye their hair to look like that simply never match the real deal. Time will tell what will happen to her, or whether I will grow tired of her."
    new "I found her in chains, in the depths of the main Decayed settlement in Old Cairo. She was handed to me almost gift wrapped. A broken gift that barely spoke or seemed to understand her surroundings.\n\nI think she was abused and used for so long that a part of her took refuge in the mind of a small child-like creature, responding to basic needs by learned impulse, and running on fear rather than sustenance.\n\nAs I write this, the only thing she seems to understand is violence inflicted upon her, and she responds by trading fear with lust, clearly used to making herself available as a way to survive the day.\n\nWhat is true is that she is a remarkable beauty, with features that are uncommon and a skin that seems to bruise with exposition to the sun more than it did when she lived in the fumes of Old Cairo.\n\nHer fiery red curls are such a rarity that she would stand out even if nothing else of her was visible. Women who try to dye their hair to look like that simply never match the real deal. Time will tell what will happen to her, or whether I will grow tired of her."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:242
    old "Igor's niece, she hails from his land of origin somewhere in what used to be called Eastern Europe, which she left behind not too long ago. Igor must have told her some tall stories about me, because she seemed taken with me from the first time we met.\n\nA few occasional encounters later, I am starting to learn that the subject of pregnancy has a strong attraction for her. I have the feeling she really has an eagerness for it. Whether it's to experience the joys of motherhood or some other, more sensual expression of her desires, is maybe soon to tell.. and for some reason she seems determined to find a place in my House. My wife seems to not oppose the idea.\n\nShe has brown, shoulder-length hair and pale skin. Her smile is pretty and sweet, with eyes that seem to be always wide with excitement as she discovers new things about Zeta and its people."
    new "Igor's niece, she hails from his land of origin somewhere in what used to be called Eastern Europe, which she left behind not too long ago. Igor must have told her some tall stories about me, because she seemed taken with me from the first time we met.\n\nA few occasional encounters later, I am starting to learn that the subject of pregnancy has a strong attraction for her. I have the feeling she really has an eagerness for it. Whether it's to experience the joys of motherhood or some other, more sensual expression of her desires, is maybe soon to tell.. and for some reason she seems determined to find a place in my House. My wife seems to not oppose the idea.\n\nShe has brown, shoulder-length hair and pale skin. Her smile is pretty and sweet, with eyes that seem to be always wide with excitement as she discovers new things about Zeta and its people."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:250
    old "[Sh] is the Captain of Queen Merneith's personal guard and was the last Captain to serve the previous Queen in that capacity. She must be a formidable fighter, because she can't have won the position with her personality.\n\nShe seems to always be angry and confrontational, or maybe she's that way only with me. Either way, I think she doesn't like me very much and she appears to be very protective of the young Queen, more even than her position demands. Maybe she doesn't appreciate how close the Queen has let me in. I can respect that.\n\nCould it be that she's simply indoctrinated by the Temple into the cult of divinity surrounding the Queen? A true believer? I guess that would also be a factor. Anyway, I should try not to antagonize her too much, even after that little incident with my wife.\n\nShe is a tall woman with an imposing physique, lean and muscular. Just by looking at her body and the confident style of her command, it is easy to see that she has earned her position and most likely fought hard for it."
    new "[Sh] is the Captain of Queen Merneith's personal guard and was the last Captain to serve the previous Queen in that capacity. She must be a formidable fighter, because she can't have won the position with her personality.\n\nShe seems to always be angry and confrontational, or maybe she's that way only with me. Either way, I think she doesn't like me very much and she appears to be very protective of the young Queen, more even than her position demands. Maybe she doesn't appreciate how close the Queen has let me in. I can respect that.\n\nCould it be that she's simply indoctrinated by the Temple into the cult of divinity surrounding the Queen? A true believer? I guess that would also be a factor. Anyway, I should try not to antagonize her too much, even after that little incident with my wife.\n\nShe is a tall woman with an imposing physique, lean and muscular. Just by looking at her body and the confident style of her command, it is easy to see that she has earned her position and most likely fought hard for it."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:259
    old "Ivy"
    new "Ivy"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:259
    old "She is a mysterious creature, for sure. Her pointy ears are the first thing that people mention when they refer to people like her as elves, but that is not their only distinctive trait, apparently. Ivy has learned to survive under the glare of the wasteland Sun for many years.\n\nShe is quick and extremely agile, which has obviously served her well. She keeps her hair at shoulder length, often covering part of her face as she hides in the shadows. There is just some quality to her that speak of innocence but also a potential for so much more.\n\nBy the time I am writing this, I have not yet heard Ivy speak; her eyes seem to do that for her, as they have the remarkable ability to change colour. I'm told that the colour reflects her state of mind or emotions towards individuals, but what each colour precisely means is still a mystery even for those who told me the name she seems to go by, a name they gave her.\n\nIs she loyal to the mutants who seem to rely on her abilities to find more of them? Does she have her own agenda?\n\nAll I can say is that she seems to have taken an interest in me. I will see what more I can learn about her. They tell me she does have the ability to speak, even if she does so rarely, and not with everybody."
    new "She is a mysterious creature, for sure. Her pointy ears are the first thing that people mention when they refer to people like her as elves, but that is not their only distinctive trait, apparently. Ivy has learned to survive under the glare of the wasteland Sun for many years.\n\nShe is quick and extremely agile, which has obviously served her well. She keeps her hair at shoulder length, often covering part of her face as she hides in the shadows. There is just some quality to her that speak of innocence but also a potential for so much more.\n\nBy the time I am writing this, I have not yet heard Ivy speak; her eyes seem to do that for her, as they have the remarkable ability to change colour. I'm told that the colour reflects her state of mind or emotions towards individuals, but what each colour precisely means is still a mystery even for those who told me the name she seems to go by, a name they gave her.\n\nIs she loyal to the mutants who seem to rely on her abilities to find more of them? Does she have her own agenda?\n\nAll I can say is that she seems to have taken an interest in me. I will see what more I can learn about her. They tell me she does have the ability to speak, even if she does so rarely, and not with everybody."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:273
    old "My oldest friend and a true brother in arms. I've known his bald ass for so long now, that he feels more like a brother than a friend, and I trust him with my life and that of any of those dear to me.\n\nA generous man, a good informant, and a fairly honest merchant, wrapped in a hulking warrior's frame. I could not ask for a more loyal friend. Meeting in the middle of a bar brawl set the tone for our friendship for quite some time, but he's a more peaceful man now.\n\nWhen I first met him we were both young, and he could  barely navigate through the simplest conversations in our language, yet still he had managed to traverse the sea of sand with only a small group of travel companions. The day his passion for the desert, for seeing the world and for travel should come to an end, the city will lose a fine merchant.\n\nDecades have passed, but he still keeps that thick accent. I have to wonder if it's an affectation or if he really can't shake it. I wouldn't put it past him to have been putting it on all these years to mess with me."
    new "My oldest friend and a true brother in arms. I've known his bald ass for so long now, that he feels more like a brother than a friend, and I trust him with my life and that of any of those dear to me.\n\nA generous man, a good informant, and a fairly honest merchant, wrapped in a hulking warrior's frame. I could not ask for a more loyal friend. Meeting in the middle of a bar brawl set the tone for our friendship for quite some time, but he's a more peaceful man now.\n\nWhen I first met him we were both young, and he could  barely navigate through the simplest conversations in our language, yet still he had managed to traverse the sea of sand with only a small group of travel companions. The day his passion for the desert, for seeing the world and for travel should come to an end, the city will lose a fine merchant.\n\nDecades have passed, but he still keeps that thick accent. I have to wonder if it's an affectation or if he really can't shake it. I wouldn't put it past him to have been putting it on all these years to mess with me."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:284
    old "Merneith"
    new "Merneith"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:284
    old "The young Queen of Zeta. She has not been in power for long yet, a couple of years now, but, as is to be expected, her role puts her at the center of the religious beliefs of Zetans who pray to her name. She is in good standing with her subjects, who adore her as most Zetans are taught to do.\n\nI believe that she has gained their respect also, and has done so by being just and intelligent in her dealings with the city. However, she is a complex woman, with many sides to her. [S] has seen her more violent streak, her thirst for excitement.\n\nI myself have seen how she is extending her control slowly, by testing those around her and learning how to control the various people at her service. It is a good thing. A Queen should know the full extent of her powers, and the extent of the loyalty of those around her, and test those regularly.\n\nI however, have my own thoughts about whether I should or should not obey her blindly."
    new "The young Queen of Zeta. She has not been in power for long yet, a couple of years now, but, as is to be expected, her role puts her at the center of the religious beliefs of Zetans who pray to her name. She is in good standing with her subjects, who adore her as most Zetans are taught to do.\n\nI believe that she has gained their respect also, and has done so by being just and intelligent in her dealings with the city. However, she is a complex woman, with many sides to her. [S] has seen her more violent streak, her thirst for excitement.\n\nI myself have seen how she is extending her control slowly, by testing those around her and learning how to control the various people at her service. It is a good thing. A Queen should know the full extent of her powers, and the extent of the loyalty of those around her, and test those regularly.\n\nI however, have my own thoughts about whether I should or should not obey her blindly."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:299
    old "Flip Flop Ninja"
    new "Flip Flop Ninja"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:299
    old "Flip Flop Ninja, Guard of Zeta"
    new "Flip Flop Ninja, Guard of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:299
    old "Nobody knows his real name. All we know is that he is the stealthiest motherfucker in Zeta. He is the hero Zeta doesn't deserve, but he's all it's got."
    new "Nobody knows his real name. All we know is that he is the stealthiest motherfucker in Zeta. He is the hero Zeta doesn't deserve, but he's all it's got."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:305
    old "I am not sure why I didn't kill her when we first met. Maybe it's because she didn't seem to actually want to do me harm. Maybe she's just influenced by the wrong crowd. Her heart didn't seem to be in it.\n\nShe has a sensual voice and a body to die for, with the darkest skin contrasted by pale blue eyes clearer than my own. She is blessed with big assets in all the right places.\n\nIt's a pity she doesn't like the city, because by her looks alone, she would make a killing as a veiled lady... instead she lives off the scraps of the desert and whatever passing merchants and  Raiders share with her."
    new "I am not sure why I didn't kill her when we first met. Maybe it's because she didn't seem to actually want to do me harm. Maybe she's just influenced by the wrong crowd. Her heart didn't seem to be in it.\n\nShe has a sensual voice and a body to die for, with the darkest skin contrasted by pale blue eyes clearer than my own. She is blessed with big assets in all the right places.\n\nIt's a pity she doesn't like the city, because by her looks alone, she would make a killing as a veiled lady... instead she lives off the scraps of the desert and whatever passing merchants and  Raiders share with her."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:314
    old "A leader of one of the gangs of Raiders, she's the younger sibling to Kyra, the top dog in her group.\n\nAs far as I know, Adira is a chaotic mess of a place, where different raider gangs control different parts of the town. The two sisters have carved their control over one of those gangs in blood. Between the two, she's the wildcat, the enforcer.\n\nProne to violence and truly embracing the raider lifestyle, she always goes all in and doesn't seem to know when to use her head.\n\nMaybe she just needs a strong hand to teach her that."
    new "A leader of one of the gangs of Raiders, she's the younger sibling to Kyra, the top dog in her group.\n\nAs far as I know, Adira is a chaotic mess of a place, where different raider gangs control different parts of the town. The two sisters have carved their control over one of those gangs in blood. Between the two, she's the wildcat, the enforcer.\n\nProne to violence and truly embracing the raider lifestyle, she always goes all in and doesn't seem to know when to use her head.\n\nMaybe she just needs a strong hand to teach her that."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:324
    old "Brash, aggressive, intelligent and voracious are some of the traits this woman possesses in abundance. She's one of the leaders of the Raiders, and one of the few people of Asian descent I know.\n\nShe and her sister Asha seem to be at the head of one of the stronger Raider groups. Both have a debt towards me, and it is in my best interest to remind them of that occasionally."
    new "Brash, aggressive, intelligent and voracious are some of the traits this woman possesses in abundance. She's one of the leaders of the Raiders, and one of the few people of Asian descent I know.\n\nShe and her sister Asha seem to be at the head of one of the stronger Raider groups. Both have a debt towards me, and it is in my best interest to remind them of that occasionally."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:332
    old "I reckon that when merchants and common folk talk about the terror the Raiders represent, they must have someone like Zion in mind, a muscle-bound fury with a mean streak.\n\nShe clearly has seen some shit. Asha tells me she almost never takes off her mask and... well, she manages to keep up with the toughest of raiders despite having only one arm left to fight with.\n\nYou have to respect that, and yes, I can imagine that having her come at you screaming with a weapon must be nightmare-inducing for a weaker soul.\n\nClearly she's well respected by the other raiders, even if she seems to be amongst the most unhinged ones. I guess it's true that violence and fear are what builds a reputation in Adira. It sure explains Asha, in some ways. It's a good thing she respects Kyra enough to not fly off the handle at every turn, even if she clearly enjoys inflicting violence and torture on people.\n\nAnd what's up with that... thing she calls her boyfriend?"
    new "I reckon that when merchants and common folk talk about the terror the Raiders represent, they must have someone like Zion in mind, a muscle-bound fury with a mean streak.\n\nShe clearly has seen some shit. Asha tells me she almost never takes off her mask and... well, she manages to keep up with the toughest of raiders despite having only one arm left to fight with.\n\nYou have to respect that, and yes, I can imagine that having her come at you screaming with a weapon must be nightmare-inducing for a weaker soul.\n\nClearly she's well respected by the other raiders, even if she seems to be amongst the most unhinged ones. I guess it's true that violence and fear are what builds a reputation in Adira. It sure explains Asha, in some ways. It's a good thing she respects Kyra enough to not fly off the handle at every turn, even if she clearly enjoys inflicting violence and torture on people.\n\nAnd what's up with that... thing she calls her boyfriend?"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:344
    old "Kitty"
    new "Kitty"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:344
    old "Now, here's something of a puzzle... I should have talked with the General for a bit, before Kyra let Zion have him. General... what a stupid name anyway. She's mute and seems to be entirely uneducated, so there's no getting anything much out of her by way of answers.\n\nShe doesn't seem frantic or anxious, or scared. She's just.. there, responsive, but passive at the same time. The pink hair is definitely a unique trait, like the blindfold.\n\nThe way I understand it, she spent most of her life as a gimmick, an object of reverence for simple-minded fools, and as a plaything to her brother who manipulated her even more than he did with those around them.\n\nShe's free from that part of her life now, but I am not sure what the future has in store for her.\n\nSat on her little blanket, she has all the energy of a sleeping puppy, and about the same degree of personality. Pretty to look at, but not very engaging at all."
    new "Now, here's something of a puzzle... I should have talked with the General for a bit, before Kyra let Zion have him. General... what a stupid name anyway. She's mute and seems to be entirely uneducated, so there's no getting anything much out of her by way of answers.\n\nShe doesn't seem frantic or anxious, or scared. She's just.. there, responsive, but passive at the same time. The pink hair is definitely a unique trait, like the blindfold.\n\nThe way I understand it, she spent most of her life as a gimmick, an object of reverence for simple-minded fools, and as a plaything to her brother who manipulated her even more than he did with those around them.\n\nShe's free from that part of her life now, but I am not sure what the future has in store for her.\n\nSat on her little blanket, she has all the energy of a sleeping puppy, and about the same degree of personality. Pretty to look at, but not very engaging at all."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:358
    old "Only recently have I found out that the few mutants that still live in these parts are trying to organise themselves to look out for one another. Fangs, one of their leaders, if not their main leader, is an impressive creature.\n\nTeeth as sharp as razors, which explains her name, she is a hot blooded soldier who is confrontational, physical but also strategically minded. I should try to understand her long term objectives better, and find out where she got her training from. That might give me a better insight into her personality and motives.\n\nShe does not like the Queen, for what she represents, for her role in society and the oppression of mutants that occurs in her name, but I don't think she actually thinks much about the queen herself, as a person. Under the circumstances, I can't blame her."
    new "Only recently have I found out that the few mutants that still live in these parts are trying to organise themselves to look out for one another. Fangs, one of their leaders, if not their main leader, is an impressive creature.\n\nTeeth as sharp as razors, which explains her name, she is a hot blooded soldier who is confrontational, physical but also strategically minded. I should try to understand her long term objectives better, and find out where she got her training from. That might give me a better insight into her personality and motives.\n\nShe does not like the Queen, for what she represents, for her role in society and the oppression of mutants that occurs in her name, but I don't think she actually thinks much about the queen herself, as a person. Under the circumstances, I can't blame her."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:371
    old "I knew him, many years ago, as Zosar, my mentor, my master and the man who saw in me the potential to become a Stalker.\n\nWhen he fell ill, he took the Long Walk, and that was the last I ever thought I'd see of him. A strong fighter, a respected Elder of the city, one of the best teachers any aspiring man of arms could dream to have, he was the incarnation of all the values of Zeta.\n\nNow, I am not sure.\n\nWhat has become of him, now that he has fallen to the Decay, is something else, maybe more scary than he already was. He seems to have united under his rule many smaller groups of Decayed, which could make him into a powerful menace towards just about anyone his gaze falls upon. He has taken notice of me and my family, after all these years.\n\nI hope his ambitions are limited to the decayed and that I and the Queen shall not have to fight him, because that is a war that Zeta might not survive."
    new "I knew him, many years ago, as Zosar, my mentor, my master and the man who saw in me the potential to become a Stalker.\n\nWhen he fell ill, he took the Long Walk, and that was the last I ever thought I'd see of him. A strong fighter, a respected Elder of the city, one of the best teachers any aspiring man of arms could dream to have, he was the incarnation of all the values of Zeta.\n\nNow, I am not sure.\n\nWhat has become of him, now that he has fallen to the Decay, is something else, maybe more scary than he already was. He seems to have united under his rule many smaller groups of Decayed, which could make him into a powerful menace towards just about anyone his gaze falls upon. He has taken notice of me and my family, after all these years.\n\nI hope his ambitions are limited to the decayed and that I and the Queen shall not have to fight him, because that is a war that Zeta might not survive."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:386
    old "Zetans"
    new "Zetans"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:386
    old "Zetan society is both complex and simple. Ruled by principles of strength, respect of traditions and a delicate balancing act of knowing your place and how far you can extend your free will, it's a city were everybody has a function and a place, an opportunity and an obligation.\n\nThe Queen is the ultimate ruler of the city, its religious authority and the head of the Palace. The Temple, the army, the bureaucrats and the Elders all respond to her, at least nominally. All of Zeta is, or must show to be, loyal to the Queen, who administers justice according to the few laws and traditions we hold sacred. How much of that absolute power actually has an effect beyond the confines of the palace, and how much of her decisions are filtered, interpreted or guided by her inner Council, the Elders, remains in question. It's one of the many secrets of the Palace.\n\nThe common folk of Zeta are concerned more with day to day things such as finding a way to thrive and survive. Some choose to serve the Sacred City, in a variety of functions, for example by joining the army, or the Temple. Some are merchants, traders, or craftsmen and women who produce all manners of goods. Zeta is fortunate compared to the smaller places that surround it. The city is older than most other settlements, and has had a head start when it comes to irrigating fields, cultivating crops, mining for resources or establishing relations with other countries or cities far from Egypt. With wealth comes population, and the ability to invest resources in developing better living conditions.\n\nOf course it helps that slavery is a thing. War prisoners, debtors, people born into slavery, criminals who must serve a sentence, people who trade the security of three meals a day for their freedom, in order to escape abject poverty... even abduction from other areas; there are many ways in which one becomes a slave in Zeta, and it's undeniable that the cheap labour has helped bolstering the city's fortunes.\n\nIn a world where lives are ruled by scarcity, violence and sometimes desperation, Zeta, flawed as it may be, is a better place than most, provided you can stand up for yourself, make your mark and defend what's yours. Might makes right here, sometimes more so than in other places; but contrary to most other places, in Zeta, might is not always expressed by the strength of one's blade. It IS possible to make a decent and honest living and be shielded from violence, letting the guards and the soldiers protect you, and if that's not a display of might that the common folk have, what is?\n\nIn the end, some sense of civilisation has been conquered here, over the last centuries, and Zetans have a right to be proud people.\n\nThat said, I don't know if I feel at home in Zeta, or that I have a real place in it. I have spent most of my life with a blade in hand and I am used to being master of myself and my House, so bending the knee to the authority of the Queen does not come easy. On the other hand, it is undeniable that the mere existence of Zeta represents a safety net for me and my people, should things turn for the worse. And it is still a resource for protection, opportunity and alliances."
    new "Zetan society is both complex and simple. Ruled by principles of strength, respect of traditions and a delicate balancing act of knowing your place and how far you can extend your free will, it's a city were everybody has a function and a place, an opportunity and an obligation.\n\nThe Queen is the ultimate ruler of the city, its religious authority and the head of the Palace. The Temple, the army, the bureaucrats and the Elders all respond to her, at least nominally. All of Zeta is, or must show to be, loyal to the Queen, who administers justice according to the few laws and traditions we hold sacred. How much of that absolute power actually has an effect beyond the confines of the palace, and how much of her decisions are filtered, interpreted or guided by her inner Council, the Elders, remains in question. It's one of the many secrets of the Palace.\n\nThe common folk of Zeta are concerned more with day to day things such as finding a way to thrive and survive. Some choose to serve the Sacred City, in a variety of functions, for example by joining the army, or the Temple. Some are merchants, traders, or craftsmen and women who produce all manners of goods. Zeta is fortunate compared to the smaller places that surround it. The city is older than most other settlements, and has had a head start when it comes to irrigating fields, cultivating crops, mining for resources or establishing relations with other countries or cities far from Egypt. With wealth comes population, and the ability to invest resources in developing better living conditions.\n\nOf course it helps that slavery is a thing. War prisoners, debtors, people born into slavery, criminals who must serve a sentence, people who trade the security of three meals a day for their freedom, in order to escape abject poverty... even abduction from other areas; there are many ways in which one becomes a slave in Zeta, and it's undeniable that the cheap labour has helped bolstering the city's fortunes.\n\nIn a world where lives are ruled by scarcity, violence and sometimes desperation, Zeta, flawed as it may be, is a better place than most, provided you can stand up for yourself, make your mark and defend what's yours. Might makes right here, sometimes more so than in other places; but contrary to most other places, in Zeta, might is not always expressed by the strength of one's blade. It IS possible to make a decent and honest living and be shielded from violence, letting the guards and the soldiers protect you, and if that's not a display of might that the common folk have, what is?\n\nIn the end, some sense of civilisation has been conquered here, over the last centuries, and Zetans have a right to be proud people.\n\nThat said, I don't know if I feel at home in Zeta, or that I have a real place in it. I have spent most of my life with a blade in hand and I am used to being master of myself and my House, so bending the knee to the authority of the Queen does not come easy. On the other hand, it is undeniable that the mere existence of Zeta represents a safety net for me and my people, should things turn for the worse. And it is still a resource for protection, opportunity and alliances."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:418
    old "Raiders"
    new "Raiders"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:418
    old "They are the outlaws, the bandits and the ravagers of our society. It's an odd way to look at it, because there are so few real laws that regulate the lives of the people of Zeta. Just like Zetans, Raiders respect power above all, and that should bring us close, but they do bring an element of chaos to everything they touch.\n\nThey care little for farming, animal rearing, learning crafts or building something for tomorrow. Their children are tossed together in a heap, and must learn to fend for themselves, half feral.\n\nViolence, to them, is more than a way to regulate the balance of power as it is to Zeta, it's a way of life, sometimes the only thing they pursue and understand. Raiding parties are how they find the means to their survival, hitting smaller settlements, sometimes even the Decayed.\n\nThey have all concentrated in a shanty town they have called Adira. It's build on the bed of what once was the Sacred Nile, and made in large part of old containers and empty hulls of ships.\n\nThey seem to be divided in a handful of factions that control different parts of the town.. I think many of them are either rejects from Zeta or the descendants of such rejects."
    new "They are the outlaws, the bandits and the ravagers of our society. It's an odd way to look at it, because there are so few real laws that regulate the lives of the people of Zeta. Just like Zetans, Raiders respect power above all, and that should bring us close, but they do bring an element of chaos to everything they touch.\n\nThey care little for farming, animal rearing, learning crafts or building something for tomorrow. Their children are tossed together in a heap, and must learn to fend for themselves, half feral.\n\nViolence, to them, is more than a way to regulate the balance of power as it is to Zeta, it's a way of life, sometimes the only thing they pursue and understand. Raiding parties are how they find the means to their survival, hitting smaller settlements, sometimes even the Decayed.\n\nThey have all concentrated in a shanty town they have called Adira. It's build on the bed of what once was the Sacred Nile, and made in large part of old containers and empty hulls of ships.\n\nThey seem to be divided in a handful of factions that control different parts of the town.. I think many of them are either rejects from Zeta or the descendants of such rejects."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:435
    old "Mutants"
    new "Mutants"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:435
    old "Nobody truly knows how mutants come to be, but it is said that no family is safe from the risk of potentially giving birth to a mutant. To be fair however, in my living memory, I do not recall hearing of a mutant that was not born to a slave. I guess their bloodline must have been bred out of the Citizens.\n\nAlmost all of the mutants alive in the city are women. That's primarily because male mutants rarely survive childhood. Almost always born into slavery, a male mutant is seen as a waste of resources and a potential menace, So they are either killed outright or put to die in the Arena.\n\nI have yet to see a mutant gain status of citizen, but maybe, now that they have found some resources that seem to be beyond anything that Zeta can put on the battlefield, they can leverage those resources to find a place to themselves, and a seat at the table, should they want it. For now however, it seems they are in disarray and still a long way away from being organised to the point of becoming a menace.\n\nThey have approached me, but I wonder what their plans are, both for me and for their fight for recognition. Caution is the word of the day."
    new "Nobody truly knows how mutants come to be, but it is said that no family is safe from the risk of potentially giving birth to a mutant. To be fair however, in my living memory, I do not recall hearing of a mutant that was not born to a slave. I guess their bloodline must have been bred out of the Citizens.\n\nAlmost all of the mutants alive in the city are women. That's primarily because male mutants rarely survive childhood. Almost always born into slavery, a male mutant is seen as a waste of resources and a potential menace, So they are either killed outright or put to die in the Arena.\n\nI have yet to see a mutant gain status of citizen, but maybe, now that they have found some resources that seem to be beyond anything that Zeta can put on the battlefield, they can leverage those resources to find a place to themselves, and a seat at the table, should they want it. For now however, it seems they are in disarray and still a long way away from being organised to the point of becoming a menace.\n\nThey have approached me, but I wonder what their plans are, both for me and for their fight for recognition. Caution is the word of the day."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:452
    old "The Decayed"
    new "The Decayed"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:452
    old "Under the name Decayed, or Damned, we count those who have somehow adapted to the corrupting illness that kills so many of us. They are often disfigured, hairless and gaunt, their lifespans, if you can call it such, extended by several decades.\n\nIt is said they are monsters who feast on human flesh, and I have had the opportunity to verify this, it is true. However, it seems to me they would be perfectly happy to eat something else, if there were enough resources for everybody. This not being the case, they seem to have adapted fairly well and learned not to let such gruesome circumstances bother them.\n\nThey live and thrive without issue in the most polluted and corrupted environments, which is why their main strongholds are to be found in places such as Old Cairo, where no other living creature could survive. They have been around for decades, centuries even, some say they go back to the End of Days, but nobody knows for certain.\n\nWhat is known about them is that they don't reproduce sexually, which begs the question how their numbers keep growing lately. My best guess is that they recruit those unfortunate enough to fall prey to the toxic wastes and the cursed corrupting winds.\n\nUntil a few decades ago they were mostly divided in small groups that would live on the margins of civilisation, but they seem to have found a common ground lately, and to have found ways to organise themselves in larger factions and groups.\n\nThey look down upon the mindless mummies that infest many ancient places, yet they are in some ways, kin."
    new "Under the name Decayed, or Damned, we count those who have somehow adapted to the corrupting illness that kills so many of us. They are often disfigured, hairless and gaunt, their lifespans, if you can call it such, extended by several decades.\n\nIt is said they are monsters who feast on human flesh, and I have had the opportunity to verify this, it is true. However, it seems to me they would be perfectly happy to eat something else, if there were enough resources for everybody. This not being the case, they seem to have adapted fairly well and learned not to let such gruesome circumstances bother them.\n\nThey live and thrive without issue in the most polluted and corrupted environments, which is why their main strongholds are to be found in places such as Old Cairo, where no other living creature could survive. They have been around for decades, centuries even, some say they go back to the End of Days, but nobody knows for certain.\n\nWhat is known about them is that they don't reproduce sexually, which begs the question how their numbers keep growing lately. My best guess is that they recruit those unfortunate enough to fall prey to the toxic wastes and the cursed corrupting winds.\n\nUntil a few decades ago they were mostly divided in small groups that would live on the margins of civilisation, but they seem to have found a common ground lately, and to have found ways to organise themselves in larger factions and groups.\n\nThey look down upon the mindless mummies that infest many ancient places, yet they are in some ways, kin."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:472
    old "Reflections on Zeta"
    new "Reflections on Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:472
    old "Reflections on Zeta, the city of Queens."
    new "Reflections on Zeta, the city of Queens."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:472
    old "Under the shadows of the Palace and the Temple, I was born into this bastion of civilisation in a dry land scoured by raiders, mummies, decayed, and ravaged by storms of all manners.\n\nThe city was founded, legends say, by the first Queen Merneith. We are taught that she is the conduit between the Gods and the people.\n\n- Personal records, D 4, Y 425 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "Under the shadows of the Palace and the Temple, I was born into this bastion of civilisation in a dry land scoured by raiders, mummies, decayed, and ravaged by storms of all manners.\n\nThe city was founded, legends say, by the first Queen Merneith. We are taught that she is the conduit between the Gods and the people.\n\n- Personal records, D 4, Y 425 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:481
    old "Old Cairo"
    new "Old Cairo"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:481
    old "Thousands of years ago, the city of Cairo represented one of the wonders of the world. Ancient Pharaos ruled the Nile from their palaces of stone and erected monuments that would stand the test of time.\n\nThose monuments are still there, and stand alone, pock marking the land of Egypt as stark reminders of not one but two bygone civilisations. The Nile has either evaporated or sunken into the ground when the End of Days came and cracked open the heaven and the earth.\n\nThe riverbed is now a wasteland, where nothing grows and the sea itself, for ages a toxic bubbling mass, has retreated from the city.\n\nAll that remains in the city is a slew of decaying buildings, toppled and leaning on one another, as bits and pieces fall from them over the years, leaving often nought but a frame of what was once a tall high-rise, a bustling market, a tall office center.\n\nWe know these things because people like me, occasionally, explore those places looking for interesting artifacts; never staying long enough to let radiation, decay or illness catch us.\n\nOnly the Decayed have made their nest there and are slowly rebuilding parts of the city to suit their monstrous needs. Mummies roam some of the buildings, but they hardly constitute a problem, except when they concentrate in too large numbers to confront.\n\nOccasionally, even a few mutant creatures have been spotted searching through the rubble for something to eat. Their nature defends them from the worst effects of the place, or maybe the effects are what has turned them in such abominations.\n\nWhat turned a once bustling city into ground zero for the worst storms that ravage our lands, is unknown."
    new "Thousands of years ago, the city of Cairo represented one of the wonders of the world. Ancient Pharaos ruled the Nile from their palaces of stone and erected monuments that would stand the test of time.\n\nThose monuments are still there, and stand alone, pock marking the land of Egypt as stark reminders of not one but two bygone civilisations. The Nile has either evaporated or sunken into the ground when the End of Days came and cracked open the heaven and the earth.\n\nThe riverbed is now a wasteland, where nothing grows and the sea itself, for ages a toxic bubbling mass, has retreated from the city.\n\nAll that remains in the city is a slew of decaying buildings, toppled and leaning on one another, as bits and pieces fall from them over the years, leaving often nought but a frame of what was once a tall high-rise, a bustling market, a tall office center.\n\nWe know these things because people like me, occasionally, explore those places looking for interesting artifacts; never staying long enough to let radiation, decay or illness catch us.\n\nOnly the Decayed have made their nest there and are slowly rebuilding parts of the city to suit their monstrous needs. Mummies roam some of the buildings, but they hardly constitute a problem, except when they concentrate in too large numbers to confront.\n\nOccasionally, even a few mutant creatures have been spotted searching through the rubble for something to eat. Their nature defends them from the worst effects of the place, or maybe the effects are what has turned them in such abominations.\n\nWhat turned a once bustling city into ground zero for the worst storms that ravage our lands, is unknown."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:503
    old "Adira"
    new "Adira"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:503
    old "Calling it a city is a compliment. This is not Zeta. It's a ragtag bunch of buildings, put together using old containers, discarded or looted panels and all manner of waste materials.\n\nThere doesn't seem to be a center or a common area, despite a couple of stranded container ships from before the End of Days being used as a base by some of the gangs that rule the city.\n\nIt's divided in an ever shifting number of mid to large gangs that take hold of a portion of the city until someone else stronger rises and challenges their control.\n\nBloody, savage and unrepentantly vicious, its inhabitants live off the proceeds of their raids, mostly, which does make them outcasts of more civilised places such as Zeta or the smaller villages in the surroundings.\n\nI've been there a couple of times in the past, but haven't had cause to return, until very recently."
    new "Calling it a city is a compliment. This is not Zeta. It's a ragtag bunch of buildings, put together using old containers, discarded or looted panels and all manner of waste materials.\n\nThere doesn't seem to be a center or a common area, despite a couple of stranded container ships from before the End of Days being used as a base by some of the gangs that rule the city.\n\nIt's divided in an ever shifting number of mid to large gangs that take hold of a portion of the city until someone else stronger rises and challenges their control.\n\nBloody, savage and unrepentantly vicious, its inhabitants live off the proceeds of their raids, mostly, which does make them outcasts of more civilised places such as Zeta or the smaller villages in the surroundings.\n\nI've been there a couple of times in the past, but haven't had cause to return, until very recently."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:516
    old "The Sapa"
    new "The Sapa"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:516
    old "This is the family of Pepper and Chili. They're a semi-nomadic tribe who have managed to preserve a lot of knowledge of things from the past, especially science related things, which I guess goes a long way to explain how Pepper was able to make use of so many parts of the bunker that I could only stare at in confusion.\n\nI don't have the knowledge of whether their condition is a mutation or a curse, or some other form of anomaly. I don't even know if it can be called a condition. They tell me that from a very young age, they are able to determine at what age they will pass away, provided this is left to natural causes. I can't tell if that's a terrible thing to know, or a blessing. What would I do if I was in the same situation as, say, Chili?\n\nTheir connection with the mutants in the bunker is going to shape their destiny, one way or another."
    new "This is the family of Pepper and Chili. They're a semi-nomadic tribe who have managed to preserve a lot of knowledge of things from the past, especially science related things, which I guess goes a long way to explain how Pepper was able to make use of so many parts of the bunker that I could only stare at in confusion.\n\nI don't have the knowledge of whether their condition is a mutation or a curse, or some other form of anomaly. I don't even know if it can be called a condition. They tell me that from a very young age, they are able to determine at what age they will pass away, provided this is left to natural causes. I can't tell if that's a terrible thing to know, or a blessing. What would I do if I was in the same situation as, say, Chili?\n\nTheir connection with the mutants in the bunker is going to shape their destiny, one way or another."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:527
    old "The Hive"
    new "The Hive"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:527
    old "These creatures are an aberration. They are human in appearance but by all other metric they behave like an ant colony. T hey're neither fully human nor decayed, but if ever a mutation found itself halfway between those two, this would be it, I guess.\n\nThe mother exerts absolute control over the men in the hive, I think through the use of her voice, to which they seem extremely sensitive. Her daughter seems to carry the same powers and be somehow aware of the mother's state of mind and wellbeing even when she's a considerable distance away... or maybe that's just how she expresses herself when she's worried about her. It is hard to say."
    new "These creatures are an aberration. They are human in appearance but by all other metric they behave like an ant colony. T hey're neither fully human nor decayed, but if ever a mutation found itself halfway between those two, this would be it, I guess.\n\nThe mother exerts absolute control over the men in the hive, I think through the use of her voice, to which they seem extremely sensitive. Her daughter seems to carry the same powers and be somehow aware of the mother's state of mind and wellbeing even when she's a considerable distance away... or maybe that's just how she expresses herself when she's worried about her. It is hard to say."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:536
    old "There is something unsettling about this woman. I am blessed for being surrounded and affording the company of many of the most beautiful women of the realm and beyond. I've bedded and enjoyed their favours.\n\nThis one is different. She is not more pretty than the Queen, nor as enticing and sensual as my wife. Her eyes aren't like those of Shani or Ivy; she is not as open and brazen as Ain, yet somehow seems to contain the sum of those parts and be both more and less at the same time.\n\nThere's some force that seems to attract all attention towards her whenever she's in the room, a force she seems able to manipulate and turn on when she needs it.\n\nThe truth is that people wouldn't notice at first sight, as her mutation, that long tongue of hers, is what would catch one's attention first... but once one pays attention to it, it's unmissable.\n\nIf that is the core of her mutant nature, she can certainly be a serious danger to any red-blooded person who might fall under her spell."
    new "There is something unsettling about this woman. I am blessed for being surrounded and affording the company of many of the most beautiful women of the realm and beyond. I've bedded and enjoyed their favours.\n\nThis one is different. She is not more pretty than the Queen, nor as enticing and sensual as my wife. Her eyes aren't like those of Shani or Ivy; she is not as open and brazen as Ain, yet somehow seems to contain the sum of those parts and be both more and less at the same time.\n\nThere's some force that seems to attract all attention towards her whenever she's in the room, a force she seems able to manipulate and turn on when she needs it.\n\nThe truth is that people wouldn't notice at first sight, as her mutation, that long tongue of hers, is what would catch one's attention first... but once one pays attention to it, it's unmissable.\n\nIf that is the core of her mutant nature, she can certainly be a serious danger to any red-blooded person who might fall under her spell."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:548
    old "Elvira, the woman I know as Pepper is a brilliant mind wrapped in a stunning body. Her intelligence and scientific approach almost make her a relic from a more knowledgeable past.\n\nShe might let me get away with my little games, but I have no doubt that she is focused on her research and on reviving knowledge once available to everybody. In the eyes of Zetan traditionalist, she should probably be put to death.\n\nI guess that, and access to the resources of the bunker, the lab in particular, explains why she would leave her people, especially to help her little sister. She too shares that same mutation, after all, and is perfectly suited to find a way to counter it, if there is any to be found. I wonder why Fangs gave her that name, when she mostly acts like a cold fish towards everybody."
    new "Elvira, the woman I know as Pepper is a brilliant mind wrapped in a stunning body. Her intelligence and scientific approach almost make her a relic from a more knowledgeable past.\n\nShe might let me get away with my little games, but I have no doubt that she is focused on her research and on reviving knowledge once available to everybody. In the eyes of Zetan traditionalist, she should probably be put to death.\n\nI guess that, and access to the resources of the bunker, the lab in particular, explains why she would leave her people, especially to help her little sister. She too shares that same mutation, after all, and is perfectly suited to find a way to counter it, if there is any to be found. I wonder why Fangs gave her that name, when she mostly acts like a cold fish towards everybody."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:559
    old "I have to think that Fangs has a sense of humour after all, given how she chooses the nicknames of the people who she gives shelter to in the bunker. Her actual name is Mina, but Chili does fit her. Pepper's sister is something of a puzzle.\n\nShe's young and full of energy, yet the foreknowledge of her fate seems to bring her a sense of stability and wisdom beyond her young age.\n\nEven so, youthful exuberance and the same inquisitive mind as her sister give her an unique temperament. If only her taste in music wasn't so... loud."
    new "I have to think that Fangs has a sense of humour after all, given how she chooses the nicknames of the people who she gives shelter to in the bunker. Her actual name is Mina, but Chili does fit her. Pepper's sister is something of a puzzle.\n\nShe's young and full of energy, yet the foreknowledge of her fate seems to bring her a sense of stability and wisdom beyond her young age.\n\nEven so, youthful exuberance and the same inquisitive mind as her sister give her an unique temperament. If only her taste in music wasn't so... loud."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:569
    old "The Stalkers"
    new "The Stalkers"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:569
    old "According to my old master, Zosar, the story of the Stalkers is about as old as the City itself. When the first Zones appeared, shortly after the End of Days, the early settlers of Zeta were caught by surprise.\n\nThe story goes that a small pocket of what seemed to be another world appeared to replace a stretch of land very close to the settlements. It only stayed in existence for maybe a week, but people who ventured into it or who were there when it first appeared seemed to disappear into thin air. Only a few individuals managed to escape the affected area and were rendered insane by the experience. When next it happened, a few of the more worldly and experienced settlers grouped together and entered this new Zone. Here they found themselves in a hilly region, lush with abundant grass and water. They explored for a while, getting lost in the process, turned about by twists and bends in the landscape. Finally they were attacked by what they described as monstruous mutations of humanlike creatures and had to fight for their lives. Only two people survived.\n\nThey later became the first ones to repeatedly explore Zones as they appeared. After a falling out, one of them started training a new generation of explorers, focusing on learning to move with stealth and circumspection, which led to them being called Stalkers, whereas the other chose to abandon the City.\n\nThe latter was seen, over the years, as he explored new Zones, either by himself or with a group of recruits. Over time, the Stalkers of Zeta developed a tight bond with the City leadership, receiving benefits, lodging, resources, in exchange for sharing what they discovered, whereas other people, whether tied to the renegade Stalker or independently, approached the Zones primarily to loot anything they could, scavenge any resource they found, without really caring for the preservation of knowledge they could acquire during those explorations.\n\nI myself have been guilty of the occasional looting, it is, after all, how I make a living, but I do pride myself on trying to accumulate and preserve whatever knowledge of our past I can find."
    new "According to my old master, Zosar, the story of the Stalkers is about as old as the City itself. When the first Zones appeared, shortly after the End of Days, the early settlers of Zeta were caught by surprise.\n\nThe story goes that a small pocket of what seemed to be another world appeared to replace a stretch of land very close to the settlements. It only stayed in existence for maybe a week, but people who ventured into it or who were there when it first appeared seemed to disappear into thin air. Only a few individuals managed to escape the affected area and were rendered insane by the experience. When next it happened, a few of the more worldly and experienced settlers grouped together and entered this new Zone. Here they found themselves in a hilly region, lush with abundant grass and water. They explored for a while, getting lost in the process, turned about by twists and bends in the landscape. Finally they were attacked by what they described as monstruous mutations of humanlike creatures and had to fight for their lives. Only two people survived.\n\nThey later became the first ones to repeatedly explore Zones as they appeared. After a falling out, one of them started training a new generation of explorers, focusing on learning to move with stealth and circumspection, which led to them being called Stalkers, whereas the other chose to abandon the City.\n\nThe latter was seen, over the years, as he explored new Zones, either by himself or with a group of recruits. Over time, the Stalkers of Zeta developed a tight bond with the City leadership, receiving benefits, lodging, resources, in exchange for sharing what they discovered, whereas other people, whether tied to the renegade Stalker or independently, approached the Zones primarily to loot anything they could, scavenge any resource they found, without really caring for the preservation of knowledge they could acquire during those explorations.\n\nI myself have been guilty of the occasional looting, it is, after all, how I make a living, but I do pride myself on trying to accumulate and preserve whatever knowledge of our past I can find."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:588
    old "The Overpass"
    new "The Overpass"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:588
    old "The origin of the name is clear, since it's build on and under what remains of a bridge, or an overpass, part of a stretch of a road dating back from before our time.\n\nDespite mostly lacking in a natural source of water, the settlement is located there because it sits right next to a mine, a large crater where people slave every day to retrieve a few pounds of ore to sell. It's hard work and the settlement is something of a refuge for loners and desperate people who don't fit in in most other places.\n\nIt was controlled and exploited by a man who called himself the General, who has since been deposed and, let's say, terminated, by Kyra's merry gang of Raiders, who I have managed to convince to take over the settlement rather than raiding it into the ground.\n\nSince it's along one of the trading routes, the Queen has taken an interest also, which is why she instructed me to inspect that place in the first place."
    new "The origin of the name is clear, since it's build on and under what remains of a bridge, or an overpass, part of a stretch of a road dating back from before our time.\n\nDespite mostly lacking in a natural source of water, the settlement is located there because it sits right next to a mine, a large crater where people slave every day to retrieve a few pounds of ore to sell. It's hard work and the settlement is something of a refuge for loners and desperate people who don't fit in in most other places.\n\nIt was controlled and exploited by a man who called himself the General, who has since been deposed and, let's say, terminated, by Kyra's merry gang of Raiders, who I have managed to convince to take over the settlement rather than raiding it into the ground.\n\nSince it's along one of the trading routes, the Queen has taken an interest also, which is why she instructed me to inspect that place in the first place."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:598
    old "The caves of Zeta"
    new "The caves of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:598
    old "I am Mahmoud, Master of the Caves, servant of our Queen and of the glory of Zeta. Hear my final wisdom, my son. The title I bear is older than memory. Our forefather helped raise the first walls of the City and became the first Master of the Caves when the hidden waters beneath Zeta were discovered after the End of Days. The duty entrusted to him was a challenging one: to create a filtration system that would divert some of the flowing water into smaller basins and purify it there. Mapping out the new, sprawling underground flow of the sacred Nile was his first great accomplishment. Then he put together a chain of machines that would modify the composition of rocks lining the caves, so that they would cleanse the water collected in these pools. He taught his son how to care for the machines that did the work, and he did the same, in time, with his firstborn. The knowledge passed from father to son until it came to me. You have often wondered why I never taught you the secrets to these machines. Now I may tell you. There are no secrets left.\n\nThe engines are winding down, because they have accomplished their purpose. In all the Chambers of Growing, a composition of minerals is perforated and sculpted in just such a way as to create a permeable barrier that will only allow water to pass that has been filtered through it to an acceptable level of purity, before it reaches the irrigation ditches. Left without a purpose, their service comes to an end, and so does mine. The waters beneath the City are clean. Others can tend them now. The Houses of Healing will safeguard the reservoirs, the wells, the public's rationed access to water, and the Chambers of Growing will continue to be irrigated as they have so far. Only one thing will be lost. When the last engine stops, the hum that has echoed beneath Zeta for centuries will vanish. What has come to be known as the Song of the City will fall silent. I have lived my life in service to that Song. When it ends, I shall relinquish my office and, as commanded by the Queen, my life. It is time to put the final incongruence to rest, and to step into the world as it is intended, finally shunning the last remnant of the technologies that have caused the End of Days. To complete the final steps, I have destroyed the manuals and records of our line, as there is no purpose left to them. Since the death of the Song will be by necessity an event that will affect people profoundly, it must not happen in a void. A narrative must exist whereby the divine song's disappearance is explained. For this, a villain must be found. I shall be that villain and shall bear the mark of shame. I shall be publicly accused and found guilty of destroying the Song, and my death shall serve as a satisfying morale, so that nobody might question events, or seek for other explanations as to the end of the Song.\n\nFor this, I raised you to be a merchant, not a cleric or indeed my successor. Use the connections you have made through my office and, when they come to destroy my name, detach yourself from my legacy and secure the future of our House. A list of names accompanies this letter. Forgive this old man the distance he placed between us. It was meant to shield you from what is to come. When you have read these words, destroy them. Let the past rest. I am Mahmoud, son of Mahmoud, last Master of the Caves. This is my wisdom."
    new "I am Mahmoud, Master of the Caves, servant of our Queen and of the glory of Zeta. Hear my final wisdom, my son. The title I bear is older than memory. Our forefather helped raise the first walls of the City and became the first Master of the Caves when the hidden waters beneath Zeta were discovered after the End of Days. The duty entrusted to him was a challenging one: to create a filtration system that would divert some of the flowing water into smaller basins and purify it there. Mapping out the new, sprawling underground flow of the sacred Nile was his first great accomplishment. Then he put together a chain of machines that would modify the composition of rocks lining the caves, so that they would cleanse the water collected in these pools. He taught his son how to care for the machines that did the work, and he did the same, in time, with his firstborn. The knowledge passed from father to son until it came to me. You have often wondered why I never taught you the secrets to these machines. Now I may tell you. There are no secrets left.\n\nThe engines are winding down, because they have accomplished their purpose. In all the Chambers of Growing, a composition of minerals is perforated and sculpted in just such a way as to create a permeable barrier that will only allow water to pass that has been filtered through it to an acceptable level of purity, before it reaches the irrigation ditches. Left without a purpose, their service comes to an end, and so does mine. The waters beneath the City are clean. Others can tend them now. The Houses of Healing will safeguard the reservoirs, the wells, the public's rationed access to water, and the Chambers of Growing will continue to be irrigated as they have so far. Only one thing will be lost. When the last engine stops, the hum that has echoed beneath Zeta for centuries will vanish. What has come to be known as the Song of the City will fall silent. I have lived my life in service to that Song. When it ends, I shall relinquish my office and, as commanded by the Queen, my life. It is time to put the final incongruence to rest, and to step into the world as it is intended, finally shunning the last remnant of the technologies that have caused the End of Days. To complete the final steps, I have destroyed the manuals and records of our line, as there is no purpose left to them. Since the death of the Song will be by necessity an event that will affect people profoundly, it must not happen in a void. A narrative must exist whereby the divine song's disappearance is explained. For this, a villain must be found. I shall be that villain and shall bear the mark of shame. I shall be publicly accused and found guilty of destroying the Song, and my death shall serve as a satisfying morale, so that nobody might question events, or seek for other explanations as to the end of the Song.\n\nFor this, I raised you to be a merchant, not a cleric or indeed my successor. Use the connections you have made through my office and, when they come to destroy my name, detach yourself from my legacy and secure the future of our House. A list of names accompanies this letter. Forgive this old man the distance he placed between us. It was meant to shield you from what is to come. When you have read these words, destroy them. Let the past rest. I am Mahmoud, son of Mahmoud, last Master of the Caves. This is my wisdom."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:630
    old "Death of the Song"
    new "Death of the Song"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:630
    old "The story is told that the Gods shaped the people and the sacred City of Zeta in Song. In those first ages, the City lived beneath its melody. Children were born to it, and men and women took comfort in its eternal hum. Then came the traitor, whose name has been stricken from all records. His name is not spoken, nor shall it be written. He performed a forbidden rite and severed the Song from us. The Queen had him seized and cast into the newly raised Arena, where justice was made final. Some say this marked the coming of age of the sacred City, the end of innocence and the beginning of wisdom. But among the faithful it is spoken otherwise. For the Song was not mere comfort, but proof of the gods' presence among us. Its silence has not weakened belief, yet it has deepened uncertainty. If one man could silence the voice of the divine, what assurance remains that our prayers are heard? That our devotion is received? That the soul is held beyond death? We sing still, though the Song does not answer. And in the silence that follows, the heart grows heavy. Cursed be the hand that severed us from the gods' voice."
    new "The story is told that the Gods shaped the people and the sacred City of Zeta in Song. In those first ages, the City lived beneath its melody. Children were born to it, and men and women took comfort in its eternal hum. Then came the traitor, whose name has been stricken from all records. His name is not spoken, nor shall it be written. He performed a forbidden rite and severed the Song from us. The Queen had him seized and cast into the newly raised Arena, where justice was made final. Some say this marked the coming of age of the sacred City, the end of innocence and the beginning of wisdom. But among the faithful it is spoken otherwise. For the Song was not mere comfort, but proof of the gods' presence among us. Its silence has not weakened belief, yet it has deepened uncertainty. If one man could silence the voice of the divine, what assurance remains that our prayers are heard? That our devotion is received? That the soul is held beyond death? We sing still, though the Song does not answer. And in the silence that follows, the heart grows heavy. Cursed be the hand that severed us from the gods' voice."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:645
    old "Desert Storms"
    new "Desert Storms"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:645
    old "{i}From conversations with a tribesman{/i}\n\nWe are the people of the desert, the bedouin. We know about storms. Our clothes, our tents, our every possession, even our animals; we know about storms. Sand storms, as big as the mind can fathom, clouding the horizon with dust and wind and terror; we have this in our blood. We do not fear the storm and I know you don't either.\n\nEven so, most of us have left for the southern regions and few of us still travel these lands. Even the depths of the Sahara see the occasional flash rain flood. This thing you have here, with the red corrupting mist and the poisoning of the lungs... I do not know how you cling to life, how you endure. This is different from what I know. The green dry clouds, the waterless rain, the death of the sacred Nile, whose bed lies as barren as a dead tree... You must have offended the djinns.\n\nDeath has gripped these lands, and will not let it go, but maybe there is some hope to be found. I have learned that many of you fear the green storm and call it cursed. I have learned that when the green storm strikes, you cover your heads, close your doors, shutter your windows, and pray to the gods of your fathers, for deliverance. I do not know that this is right.\n\nI have seen the land. I have spoken to it. I have spoken to those that live off the land and try to farm it or know of such things. They tell me that there is life in the land, when the storm has passed; life that was scarcely there before the storm. Our elders speak of days in which the sky was clear, and blue like the garments of our women, and the Sun shone bright over our heads.\n\nI pray that I may see the blue sky above the big cities before my passing. I pray for you, Stalker of these lands, that you may see it as well. Be at peace."
    new "{i}From conversations with a tribesman{/i}\n\nWe are the people of the desert, the bedouin. We know about storms. Our clothes, our tents, our every possession, even our animals; we know about storms. Sand storms, as big as the mind can fathom, clouding the horizon with dust and wind and terror; we have this in our blood. We do not fear the storm and I know you don't either.\n\nEven so, most of us have left for the southern regions and few of us still travel these lands. Even the depths of the Sahara see the occasional flash rain flood. This thing you have here, with the red corrupting mist and the poisoning of the lungs... I do not know how you cling to life, how you endure. This is different from what I know. The green dry clouds, the waterless rain, the death of the sacred Nile, whose bed lies as barren as a dead tree... You must have offended the djinns.\n\nDeath has gripped these lands, and will not let it go, but maybe there is some hope to be found. I have learned that many of you fear the green storm and call it cursed. I have learned that when the green storm strikes, you cover your heads, close your doors, shutter your windows, and pray to the gods of your fathers, for deliverance. I do not know that this is right.\n\nI have seen the land. I have spoken to it. I have spoken to those that live off the land and try to farm it or know of such things. They tell me that there is life in the land, when the storm has passed; life that was scarcely there before the storm. Our elders speak of days in which the sky was clear, and blue like the garments of our women, and the Sun shone bright over our heads.\n\nI pray that I may see the blue sky above the big cities before my passing. I pray for you, Stalker of these lands, that you may see it as well. Be at peace."

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:676
    old "Trainee"
    new "Trainee"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:676
    old "She has made me really proud today. When her little sister was in danger, she showed resourcefulness, courage and skill. She moved and acted like a real Stalker, with strength, and focus, tempered with the grace of her youth. Her training is almost complete. All she lacks now is experience.\n\nSoon, she will have to face the trial of the Zone, and walk alone. As much as this fills me with pride, I cannot deny that I fear the perils she will face might take her away from me. But I am confident that she will walk the path that is set out for her. If I had not seen potential in her, I would not have initiated her to this dangerous life, but she is worthy.\n\nI believe in her. As for the little one, a punishment is in order.\n\n- Personal records, D 184, Y 416 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "She has made me really proud today. When her little sister was in danger, she showed resourcefulness, courage and skill. She moved and acted like a real Stalker, with strength, and focus, tempered with the grace of her youth. Her training is almost complete. All she lacks now is experience.\n\nSoon, she will have to face the trial of the Zone, and walk alone. As much as this fills me with pride, I cannot deny that I fear the perils she will face might take her away from me. But I am confident that she will walk the path that is set out for her. If I had not seen potential in her, I would not have initiated her to this dangerous life, but she is worthy.\n\nI believe in her. As for the little one, a punishment is in order.\n\n- Personal records, D 184, Y 416 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:692
    old "Exploring the ruins both in the desert and around the city, and comparing them to the relatively new buildings of Zeta, I have come to the conclusion that the founders of the city may have built upon preexisting ruins, breathing new life in an ancient civilisation.\n\nI am unclear as to why they would have chosen such an antique model to build upon, rather than trying to piece together the ruins of the civilisation they were a part of themselves. Maybe this was easier. After all, little knowledge is needed to pile large blocks of stone one upon the other.\n\nI myself would not know how to start building the complex structures that I see crumbled in ruins in Old Cairo. Maybe that knowledge, that technology was lost, and they went for something that was more readily available.\n\n- Personal records, D 326, Y 429 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "Exploring the ruins both in the desert and around the city, and comparing them to the relatively new buildings of Zeta, I have come to the conclusion that the founders of the city may have built upon preexisting ruins, breathing new life in an ancient civilisation.\n\nI am unclear as to why they would have chosen such an antique model to build upon, rather than trying to piece together the ruins of the civilisation they were a part of themselves. Maybe this was easier. After all, little knowledge is needed to pile large blocks of stone one upon the other.\n\nI myself would not know how to start building the complex structures that I see crumbled in ruins in Old Cairo. Maybe that knowledge, that technology was lost, and they went for something that was more readily available.\n\n- Personal records, D 326, Y 429 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:705
    old "Although I was educated in Zeta, many years of travel and exploration have made me something of an outsider, I guess that even those who survive crossing through a Zone, are forever changed nonetheless.\n\nOther Stalkers have found their residence in Zeta, others still prefer the lawless Raiders of Adira. I chose the middle path, and founded my House on the outskirts, outside of the confines of Zeta.\n\nI traded some of the protection that the walls of the city offer for a degree of freedom that I might otherwise not have. Hopefully, this will not come to damage my family.\n\n- Personal records, D 52, Y 430 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "Although I was educated in Zeta, many years of travel and exploration have made me something of an outsider, I guess that even those who survive crossing through a Zone, are forever changed nonetheless.\n\nOther Stalkers have found their residence in Zeta, others still prefer the lawless Raiders of Adira. I chose the middle path, and founded my House on the outskirts, outside of the confines of Zeta.\n\nI traded some of the protection that the walls of the city offer for a degree of freedom that I might otherwise not have. Hopefully, this will not come to damage my family.\n\n- Personal records, D 52, Y 430 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:717
    old "The laws of Zeta are few and upholding them beyond what the guards can do, falls on each of us who have the means and skills to do so.\n\nBetween the few written and spoken rules, a lot of posturing and an almost animalistic sense of personal boundaries, it is ultimately the sensible application of violence that regulates the balance of living in Zeta, under what passes for its laws.\n\nEven so, Zeta is a peaceful place, where people can thrive even when they renounce the way of violence.\n\nBy comparison Adira, or the badlands, the recesses of the desert and the Zone are a chaotic sinkhole of violence, prevarication, murder and abuse.\n\n- Personal records, D 116, Y 432 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "The laws of Zeta are few and upholding them beyond what the guards can do, falls on each of us who have the means and skills to do so.\n\nBetween the few written and spoken rules, a lot of posturing and an almost animalistic sense of personal boundaries, it is ultimately the sensible application of violence that regulates the balance of living in Zeta, under what passes for its laws.\n\nEven so, Zeta is a peaceful place, where people can thrive even when they renounce the way of violence.\n\nBy comparison Adira, or the badlands, the recesses of the desert and the Zone are a chaotic sinkhole of violence, prevarication, murder and abuse.\n\n- Personal records, D 116, Y 432 since the Founding of Zeta"

    # game/scripts/codex_content.rpy:729
    old "My recent visits to the palace confirm my suspicion... there are a few buildings in Zeta that are thousands of years old.\n\nI think the newer ones have been modelled on those early structures. Are we just an echo of something our ancestors cobbled together from the ruins of what was left after the End of Days?\n\n- Personal records, D 109, Y 437 since the Founding of Zeta"
    new "My recent visits to the palace confirm my suspicion... there are a few buildings in Zeta that are thousands of years old.\n\nI think the newer ones have been modelled on those early structures. Are we just an echo of something our ancestors cobbled together from the ruins of what was left after the End of Days?\n\n- Personal records, D 109, Y 437 since the Founding of Zeta"

